JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Donald Trump's
campaign meets with Republican
officials after
backtracking on his
controversial ISIS remarks,
while the world gets a look at
Hillary Clinton's
tax returns.
Then, we sit down with
journalist Scott Anderson
on his epic report in "The New
York Times
Magazine" on how the Arab world
came apart
after the 2003 U.S. invasion of
Iraq.
SCOTT ANDERSON, "The New York
Times Magazine":
I didn't want to write a
40,000-word essay.
But to tell this story, I really
needed to
focus on people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus, from
refugee camps to
the world stage, how the first
ever refugee
Olympic team is bringing
awareness and hope
to a global audience.
And it's Friday.
David Brooks and E.J. Dionne
analyze a full
week of news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donald Trump is
winding down
another tough week in the
presidential race,
as new polls now put him behind
by double
digits in several key states.
His staffers were meeting with
officials of
the Republican National
Committee today.
And in Erie, Pennsylvania, the
candidate himself
sounded upbeat a day after
acknowledging his
campaign was having trouble.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
We have to win Pennsylvania.
We win Pennsylvania, we're going
to win it.
You know, we're up in Florida,
we're doing
well in Ohio, and I am hearing
well here.
We will find out.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Trump also
insisted again he
was being sarcastic in saying
that President
Obama founded the Islamic State
group.
And then he added -- quote --
"but not that
sarcastic."
Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton
reported that she
and former President Clinton
made $10.6 million
in income last year.
They paid about 34 percent in
federal taxes.
We will return to the campaign
after the news
summary.
In the day's other news: The
Pentagon confirms
tonight that a U.S. drone attack
has killed
a top Islamic State leader in
Afghanistan.
Hafiz Saeed Khan died in a
strike on July
26.
The State Department designated
him a global
terrorist last year.
Bombings rocked across towns in
Southern Thailand
today, killing at least four
people and wounding
dozens more.
Coordinated attacks hit six
sites, including
the popular island of Phuket.
Harry Smith of Independent
Television News
reports.
HARRY SMITH: The authorities say
they were
small explosions from improvised
devices,
but still deadly in their
impact, some filled
with ball bearings and other
shrapnel designed
to cause maximum casualties.
Many set off were nearly as busy
with tourists
at times when they might have
been out enjoying
the nightlife.
The blasts also coincided with
the national
holiday to celebrate the
birthday of Thailand's
queen.
If the object was to hit the
country's tourist
trade, it made an immediate
impact.
HANNAH HARKNESS, Tourist: I
couldn't believe
it.
I felt sick.
Couldn't like -- I was
absolutely speechless.
I just don't know how to feel.
I thought like that I was going
to come to
this place and feel safe.
MAN: I mean, it's astonishing
what's happening
in little Hua Hin.
It's a place where tourism, and
especially
this weekend with the queen's
birthday, it's
supposed to be a place for
celebration.
HARRY SMITH: Perhaps to reassure
the thousands
who visit Thailand each year,
police were
quick to insist this wasn't an
attack connected
to any global terror network,
insisting instead
it was the work of local
insurgents.
COL.
KRISANA PATANACHAROE, Thai
Police: We are
working round-the- clock in
order to identify
the suspects and also the
motives behind the
scenes.
HARRY SMITH: Insurgent groups in
the historically
Muslim south of Thailand have a
long-running
campaign for an independent
Islamic state.
It's often been violent,
thousands have been
killed, but it has never before
targeted tourist
areas.
The attacks came just a week
after the Thais
voted in a referendum to
strengthen the powers
of the ruling military regime.
The authorities have stepped up
security checks
at all tourist destinations, and
European
embassies have advised their
nationals to
be vigilant.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There was no
immediate claim
of responsibility.
The man that Turkey's government
blames for
a coup attempt is calling for an
international
investigation before he will
agree to return.
Turkish leaders want the U.S. to
extradite
Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen,
who lives in
Pennsylvania.
Writing today in the French
newspaper Le Monde,
Gulen said -- quote -- "If a
tenth of the
accusations against me are
established, I
pledge to return to Turkey and
serve the heaviest
sentence."
In Russia, President Vladimir
Putin fired
his right-hand man today as part
of an ongoing
shakeup of his inner circle.
Longtime ally Sergei Ivanov was
dropped from
his post as chief of staff.
He'd been one of the most
influential figures
in Russia and was once
considered a likely
successor to Putin.
But, today, the Russian
president said he
made the decision at Ivanov's
request.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): We have been
working together
for many years and it was
successful work.
I'm happy with how you have
handled the tasks.
I understand your desire to
choose another
line of work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the past year,
Putin has
replaced several of his more
powerful allies
with younger officials.
Back in this country, the U.S.
Department
of Health and Human services has
declared
a public health emergency in
Puerto Rico over
the Zika virus.
The island has more than 10,000
cases, and
the surgeon general warned that
25 percent
of the population will be
infected by year's
end.
Zika is linked to severe birth
defects.
New data shows the cost of
expanding Medicaid
under the Affordable Care Act is
almost 50
percent higher than projected.
Up to 10 million low-income
Americans have
been added to Medicaid rolls so
far.
But the agency overseeing the
effort says
it's running nearly $6,400 a
person.
That could make it much more
difficult to
expand Medicaid in the 19 states
that have
not yet done so.
Wall Street closed out the week
with a subpar
session, after weak data on
retail sales.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 37 points
to close at 18576.
The Nasdaq rose four points, and
the S&P 500
dropped a point.
For the week, all three indexes
gained a fraction
of a point.
And at the Summer Olympics, an
upset today
in women's soccer.
The U.S. team lost to Sweden in
the quarterfinals
on a penalty shoot-out after
regulation play
ended in a tie.
The American women had won gold
in the last
three Olympics.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
how Republican
officials are dealing with
Donald Trump; six
lives that reflect the
fracturing of the Middle
East; triumphs and heartbreaks
at the Rio
Olympics; and much more.
Donald Trump continues to drive
division in
the Republican Party, as new
polls have him
losing ground in states that
will be key to
victory.
We look at where the race stands
now with
Robert Costa.
He's the national political
reporter with
The Washington Post.
Robert Costa, welcome back to
the program.
First of all, we know that
Reince Priebus,
who is the chairman of the
Republican Party,
made a point of introducing
Donald Trump today
when he spoke in Erie,
Pennsylvania.
But at the same time, we have
been mentioning
the polls are slipping for Mr.
Trump.
There has been a string of these
controversial
statements.
How worried -- or is this party
worried?
ROBERT COSTA, The Washington
Post: Judy, good
to be with you.
The relationship between the
party chairman
and the GOP standard-bearer
remains a pivotal
one within the GOP, and my
sources tell me
that Priebus made a point today
to travel
from New York to Erie,
Pennsylvania, to make
sure he showcased his unity with
Donald Trump,
as some people at the party's
upper levels
are saying maybe it's time,
because of these
sliding poll numbers, to
distance Republicans,
especially in swing states, from
Donald Trump.
Priebus said today in Erie
that's not true,
the party is not moving away
from Trump, he's
sticking with the nominee.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so what sort
of pressure,
Robert, is there on the
Republican Party,
on the leadership of the party
to either work
with Donald Trump or to distance
themselves
from him?
ROBERT COSTA: At the RNC level,
they're intertwined,
the Trump campaign and RNC, when
it comes
to fund-raising.
So, they have had a close
relationship.
The tensions are really more raw
when it comes
to the congressional ranks.
House Republicans have a 59-seat
majority.
Some members there are privately
very edgy,
uncomfortable about what Trump
could mean
for them especially if they are
in a swing
district.
And in the Senate, you have
states like Pennsylvania
where Trump was today, Mark Kirk
in Illinois,
Kelly Ayotte in New Hampshire.
They're facing very tough races
this fall
and how they align with Trump is
becoming
their key strategic decision.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We also heard --
we heard Donald
Trump just himself acknowledge
in the last
day or so that he's having
problems in some
states, in some of these
important swing states
like Ohio, like Florida, but
even in a reliably
Republican state like Utah.
What is that telling you,
somebody who's been
covering politics for some time,
and what
does it say to Republicans who
are watching
this race so closely?
ROBERT COSTA: Utah is a
particularly case.
You have a new presidential
candidate, an
independent conservative, Evan
McMullin, come
from Utah.
Temperamentally, the Mormon
population of
Utah doesn't always fit with
Donald Trump.
They really like Donald Trump,
according to
most polls.
Some evangelical communities,
you see Hillary
Clinton, the former secretary of
state, she
is gaining in a state like
Georgia.
Trump is trying to adjust to a
general election.
He's been so rough and tumble
for so long,
throwing punches, that it turns
some swing
voters off.
But according to my sources in
the Trump campaign,
Trump is adamant that he will
not change,
that he wants to continue to run
a campaign
from the gut, on his instincts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what does
that mean, Robert?
Does that mean we can expect to
hear comments
like the ones in the last few
days, the Second
Amendment comment that some
people took to
mean he was threatening Hillary
Clinton, and
then more recently this comment
that Hillary
Clinton and President Clinton
founded ISIS?
ROBERT COSTA: That's always the
peril Trump
finds himself in as a novice
first-time national
candidate.
He likes to be the outsider,
someone who's
brash and bold in his mind, but
he takes risks
in his some of his comments by
being out there
a little bit.
The party hopes that he can
control some more
of his incendiary remarks, but
still have
that outsider appeal, which they
think is
really Trump's really only path
to the White
House, to make these swing
voters and working-class
voters who are disengaged with
the system
feel like they maybe have a
candidate for
themselves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Robert, we
have seen more
-- or at least a number of
prominent Republicans
like Senator Susan Collins of
Maine come out
and say they couldn't support
Donald Trump.
There was a letter this week by
former foreign
policy experts in the Republican
Party.
Then yet another letter went to
the RNC from
Republicans saying, we don't
want you to spend
as much money on Donald Trump,
we want you
to spend money on these other
races.
Is this the kind of thing that
the party leadership
has to worry about or can they
just ignore
it all?
ROBERT COSTA: Oh, they're not
ignoring it
at all, Judy, because one of the
things Trump
is facing is, he doesn't have an
institutional
history within the Republican
Party.
He doesn't have the
relationships going back
years that have sustained other
nominees in
past cycles when they have had a
patch of
rough poll numbers.
A lot of Republicans now on
Capitol Hill and
elsewhere, they're saying, if
Trump is going
to lose the general election, in
our view,
maybe it's time to walk away,
walk away in
a full way, don't even have
money going from
major donors to the nominee, put
it to those
down-ballot race that are more
vulnerable.
But Trump insists that the RNC
is still going
to work with him and Priebus was
there today,
but this is all happening, these
conversations
are circulating within the party
that maybe
Trump isn't going to win and
things have to
be done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Robert
Costa with
The Washington Post, we thank
you very much.
ROBERT COSTA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the Middle
East and
a conversation about the chaos,
calamity and
political dissolution that now
envelope the
region.
Hari Sreenivasan in New York has
that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The last five
years of tumult
in the Middle East defy easy
explanations.
Revolutions that began with much
hope in early
2011 have evolved into disaster
in places
like Syria and Libya and led to
political
upheaval and repression in
Egypt.
In Iraq, the American-led war
that began in
2003 has morphed into a
many-sided conflict
that has once again brought
America back into
the fight there and in Syria.
Caught in the middle, millions
of people whose
lives have been upended.
An attempt to capture in part
the story of
this cataclysmic time comes now
from journalist
Scott Anderson and photographer
Paolo Pellegrin,
whose work "Fractured Lands"
comprises the
entirety issue of this Sunday's
"New York
Times Magazine."
And Scott Anderson joins me now.
You're telling one bigger story,
and you're
using six different voices to
get at it.
SCOTT ANDERSON, "The New York
Times Magazine":
Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But the big
thesis in a
nutshell.
SCOTT ANDERSON: I wanted to tell
this kind
of broad story of how we got
here, and to
a degree where we might be
headed next.
And to tell this story, I really
needed to
focus in on people.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
characters that
you focus on in Iraq is so
compelling.
It's a young woman who ends up
-- she was
working for the CPA for a little
while, the
Provisional Authority.
Tell us about her arc now.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Right.
Yes.
Khulood al-Zaidi, she was --
she's from a
provincial town in Southern Iraq
from a Shia
family.
When the Americans invaded in
2003, she heard
the talk of democracy and human
rights and
women's empowerment that the CPA
was talking
about.
She became an instant convert.
She worked for the CPA.
And then, when the Americans
left, she was
stranded on the beach, so to
speak.
And she tried to continue doing
work.
She received many death threats
from the militias,
finally ended up having to go
into exile in
Jordan.
And just in the last -- about
six months,
she joined the migrant exodus to
Europe.
So, now she and one of her
sisters are living
in a little town in Austria, and
they have
been given asylum and they're
going to start
a university in September.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You find these
characters
kind of at their bridge they're
crossing over,
something that changed their
lives forever,
not just the overall invasion,
but something
very specific that happened in
each of their
lives.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There is an
Egyptian character
that you focus on, an activist.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Right.
Laila Soueif is a -- she's a
math professor
at Cairo University, has been an
activist
since the 1970s, leftist, a
feminist.
And she and her husband, who is
now deceased,
were probably the most --
certainly the most
prominent political dissident
couple in Egypt.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And their son
was in the
family business, too.
SCOTT ANDERSON: And their son
and their two
daughters got in the family
business.
Laila was -- during the Tahrir
Square in 2007
was in the front lines.
She very early on, though, saw
the danger.
The existing political forces,
they were slow
in trying to consolidate after
Mubarak was
overthrown.
She saw the danger of the
military coming
back in.
And now she's living that.
And two of her children are in
prison for
protesting against the Sisi
government.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And this was
part of this
ripple effect of the Arab
spring.
We thought -- we saw the
incredible act of
Bouazizi, who immolated himself
that caused
this in Tunisia.
And here it was spreading like
wildfire across
the region.
And we look, three, fours years
later, there's
not that much change.
In fact, some things are worse
off.
SCOTT ANDERSON: I think what
happened in a
lot of these countries is that
there wasn't
a consensus.
These dictators had been around
for so long.
And so when they did fall,
people tended to
fall back on their tribal or
sectarian allegiances
that in a lot of these countries
had always
been people's primary allegiance
anyway.
You look at Libya, Syria, Iraq,
these were
all artificial nations that were
created by
the Western powers at the end of
World War
I.
When the strong man goes, you
have no tradition
of democracy, no tradition of
political expression.
Let's not even talk about
democracy.
You know, what happens?
What takes its place?
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you say
that really
it's, in that initial carving
up, there wasn't
much attention paid to what is
Kurdistan,
who are their loyalties to, what
is the other
rest of Iraq, and should this be
part of one
country?
SCOTT ANDERSON: Right.
Not even little consideration.
I think it was a strategy.
It was the same strategy the
colonial powers
used in sub-Saharan Africa.
You empower a local tribe or
ethnic group
or religious group to operate as
your local
overseers.
So, the majority can never -- is
never going
to rebel against them, and
they're not going
to rebel against you because
they will be
taken over by the majority.
And this is a pattern that
existed throughout
the region.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You begin and
end the story
with bookends from one of your
characters
from Kurdistan.
And near the end, he says, Iraq
is gone, Syria
is gone, it is our time now.
SCOTT ANDERSON: What they have
always wanted
is a larger Kurdish homeland.
But this character in
particular, he sees
no future for living amongst
Arabs, so he
sees this as an opportunity.
This is a golden moment, in his
mind, to rid
the area, to basically
ethnically cleanse
the entire Kurdistan of the Arab
population
that has moved in.
And this goes to this idea that
people think,
oh, well, why don't we just
start like bifurcating
or trifurcating some of these
countries, and
everyone can go back to having
their little
homelands?
But everyone is so mixed in now.
And it's like where -- how far
down do you
start subdividing it?
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
things that I
noticed in this article is that
you don't
just say this is a Shia-Sunni
problem, which
is very easy kind of Western way
to look at
the Middle East and say, well,
oh, clearly,
these Shia must love those Shia,
they're in
cahoots, and they are going to
overthrow this.
And you don't -- get into that.
SCOTT ANDERSON: No, and it's so
much more
complicated, and enjoined to the
idea of how
you subdivide it.
In Iraq, there is lots of very
large tribes
that have a Sunni component and
a Shia component.
So, what happens?
If you tried to do a Sunni-Shia
division,
what happens to that tribe?
You know, there are issues with
clans going
back...
HARI SREENIVASAN: A couple of
thousand years.
SCOTT ANDERSON: A couple of
You know, and so, when people
start looking
at like a kind of a quick
solution to any
of this, I think it's just in
for a really
long, very rocky road throughout
the region.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, finally,
Syria, you
have multiple characters, and we
just got
to a few of them.
But he's fascinating for a
totally different
reason.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yes, Majd
Ibrahim, he is a
23-year-old from Homs, a city in
Central Syria
that has probably the most
destroyed city
over the course of the Syrian
civil war.
They call it the Syrian
Stalingrad.
And the whole time he was --
Majd is a very
Westernized young man.
I once asked them, looking at
the Assad regime,
what does your father say about
the Assad
regime?
What were his views?
And he said, we never talked
about it.
They never once talked politics
around the
dinner table.
The security state that existed
in Syria,
and still does, was so firm that
nobody would
talk about it.
And it goes to this idea that if
people can't
even talk about their political
aspirations,
when you have a rupture, how can
there be
a consensus of what is going to
take its place?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Scott Anderson
of The New
York Times.
The piece is fantastic.
It's the entire "New York Times
Magazine"
this weekend.
Thank you for joining us.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Thank you, Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Scott
Anderson's work for
"The New York Times Magazine"
was supported
by the Pulitzer Center on Crisis
Reporting.
They are a frequent partner of
the "NewsHour."
And now back to the world of
politics, and
to the analysis of Brooks and
Dionne.
That is New York Times columnist
David Brooks
and Washington Post columnist
E.J. Dionne.
Welcome.
Mark Shields is away this week.
So, let's pick up, gentlemen,
with where I
left off a few minutes ago with
Robert Costa
of The Washington Post.
David, what a week for Donald
Trump.
I guess we all thought maybe
things were going
to slow down, but first there
was the comment
about the Second Amendment that
-- seen by
some as a threat to Hillary
Clinton, and then
the ISIS comments.
How do we interpret how Donald
Trump is communicating
with everybody?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, this isn't a
decision
he is making.
It's a condition he possesses.
And we're not used to talking
about the psychological
mental health of our candidates.
And in some things, I think it's
not fair
to talk about his mental health,
in terms
of how he operates with his kids
in his private
life, but there is a such a
thing as public
psychology and political
psychology.
And in public, he obviously
displays extreme
narcissism, but most of all, he
displays a
certain manic, hyperactive
attention.
And so if you graph a Trump
sentence, every
eight-word verse, he's like
associative thinking.
And there is a term in
psychology called the
flights of thought, where one
word sets off
an association, which sets off
an association.
And as one psychiatrist said,
compare his
speeches to Robin Williams'
monologues, but
without the jokes, but with
insults.
And so he's not in control of
his own attention,
I don't believe.
And, therefore, you get these
rambling, weird
sentences.
You get things he patently
shouldn't be saying.
And then even this, I'm being
sarcastic about
the sarcasm, I'm obviously being
sarcastic,
and then maybe a fifth a second
later, he
said, but not that much.
So he is contradicting himself
within 12 words.
And that's a condition.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, E.J., how are
we to understand
this, as people trying to
understand this
election?
E.J.
DIONNE: Well, I have been
thinking about it,
that there is the English
language and then
there's the Trump language.
And in the Trump language, words
change their
meaning day by day depending on
his own political
needs.
I won't go into the learned
psychological
explanation that David gave, but
there are
a lot of people now talking that
way about
him.
But, politically, he doesn't
seem to care
much about what he says.
He gauges the effect.
Sometimes, in the middle of a
speech, he will
change his direction if the
audience doesn't
like him.
And I had a very instructive
trip this week
to York, Pennsylvania.
It's a conservative county,
Southern Pennsylvania,
not far from here.
And one of the most interesting
conversations
I had was with Allison Cooper,
the editor
of The York Dispatch.
And talked about how people in
this very Republican
area -- York City is Democratic,
but the county
is very Republican -- are people
who care
about manners and decorum.
And she spoke about -- what she
said is, common
decency is a core part of who
people are.
And I think in this campaign, we
have talked
about soccer moms, we have
talked about angry
white men, and I think you're
starting to
develop common decency voters
who are just
reacting to what Trump says.
A Republican county commissioner
I talked
to up to there said that she's
been active
with veterans.
And after what Trump said about
the Khan family
and what he said about the
Purple Heart, she
said, I can't vote for him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The convention.
E.J.
DIONNE: And so something deep is
happening,
and it has nothing to do with
ideology or
even party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, meanwhile,
David, we're
trying to understand.
As we just heard Robert Costa
reporting a
few minutes ago, leaders in the
party are
betwixt and between trying to
figure out,
how do they deal with this?
He's saying, I'm going to go my
own way.
They know they're not going to
separate from
him.
But how do we -- again, how do
we understand
the state of his campaign?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Well, Josh Marshall of Talking
Points Memo
points out that, in today's
polling, if you
just take the states where
Clinton is up by
10 points or more, she has got
273 electoral
votes, enough to win.
And so that's 10 points more.
Can we imagine a state where he
moves the
numbers in Wisconsin by 10
points?
That would be a huge and
unprecedented gain
at this stage.
And so it's looking very bad for
him.
And so the Republicans have to
figure out
what to do.
And so a lot of them are writing
open letters,
but even more are saying things
privately,
let's get the RNC to defund the
campaign.
We just cut them off.
And that either drives him crazy
and he quits,
or else at least we have got
more money for
our own people.
And to me, that's sort of
interesting.
Just take away the morality.
I think the morality is, you cut
off funding,
but just on political grounds,
do you think,
well, if we spend the money on
Senate campaigns,
at least we can shore those up.
But the blunt fact is, if Trump
completely
collapses, and gets 38, 40, 42
percent of
the vote, then the tsunami is so
big, it probably
sweeps out a lot of the
congressional races,
no matter what they spend on
locally.
So, where to put the money is an
interesting
question.
E.J.
DIONNE: And Republicans are in a
real catch-22,
a lot of their candidates,
because they know
that if they get too close to
Trump, they
could lose a lot of voters in
the middle,
my common decency folks, but if
they cut him
off too aggressively, the Trump
constituency
is still a very big part of the
Republican
base.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is still a
constituency
out there.
E.J.
DIONNE: And if they lose those
votes, they're
in trouble.
And that's why I think you're
seeing timidity
and uncertainty on the
Republican side, because
they don't quite know what to do
with Trump.
DAVID BROOKS: And I would say,
it was interesting,
even after the Second Amendment
comment, and
all that, his poll numbers were
flat this
week.
In fact, he narrowed a little
with Clinton.
It's possible we're seeing a
floor and that
he can't -- he can say all sorts
of crazy
things, but he's not getting
above or below
where he is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: If the question
is, what are
the options for Republican
leaders, the options
are what?
Just to wait and watch and see
what happens?
E.J.
DIONNE: I think that the way --
partly, it
depends on individual
candidates.
There are candidates in states
where they
know Trump is going to do very
badly, and
they're already running away
from Trump.
There are other candidates who
are, as I said,
worried about this mix of votes
they're going
to get.
I think, more and more, you're
seeing -- Republicans
for Clinton is a real deal.
The Clinton Republican is kind
of the Reagan
Democrat of this election at
this point.
And I think more and more the
leadership is
going to look at the threat to
the Senate.
The Senate is very shaky, their
control there
right -- on the numbers right
now, and say,
it's not worth propping this guy
up, we have
got to let him go and support
our candidates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meantime, David,
it wasn't
an especially great week for
Hillary Clinton,
in that she did -- today, we saw
she put out
her tax returns for the last
year, adding
to, I guess, a number of years.
But what the Trump camp
continues to say is,
wait a minute, we still want to
see those
e-mails.
And, in fact, there were a
couple of leaks
this week that make it look like
there was
something going on between the
Clinton Foundation
and Hillary Clinton's staff at
the State Department.
DAVID BROOKS: And it looks like
they were
soliciting money and then
exchanging access.
And so I think that Clinton's
overall past
is not a surprise.
And this is contrast, say, the
Obama coterie.
The Obama coterie doesn't get in
mini-scandals.
The Clintons' coterie gets in
constant mini-scandals.
And it's never decisive.
They never break their, end
their political
careers, but there's just the
whiff of scandal.
And this goes back to the Rose
Law Firm.
This goes back for decades.
And this is just part of their
pattern, where
what they're doing is probably
not disqualifying.
If we got rid of everybody in
Washington who
sold access for donations, then
the town would
be empty.
But it's unseemly.
And so I think it rises to the
level of unseemly,
unseemliness, which confirms a
lot of the
mistrust people have.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How much of a
problem is it
for her?
E.J.
DIONNE: Well, just to say, I
don't think we
have the evidence yet that they
sold access
for contributions.
And the Justice Department
decided not to
look into this.
Nevertheless, I think the
existence of the
Clinton Foundation is a problem
for her.
My notion is that if she were
ever elected
president -- and if I were she,
I would announce
it ahead of time -- I would
announce that
for the duration of my
presidency, this is
going to become the
Eisenhower-Kennedy Foundation.
Let's pick the two popular
presidents when
Bill and Hillary Clinton were
kids or were
young.
Let David and Susan Eisenhower,
Caroline Kennedy
be trustees.
Just push this aside, because
you can even
borrow from Prince, formerly
known as the
Clinton Foundation.
But you just don't want these
stories coming
out continually, even if there
is nothing
actionable in terms of the law.
And I would just kind of push
this aside,
because you have never had a
chance where
a former president -- they all
have these
foundations of one kind of
another -- actually
has his spouse in the White
House.
They got to figure out what to
do with this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, meantime,
you do have
-- there was this instance where
Hillary Clinton's
chief of staff at the State
Department went
up to New York and was involved
in important
meetings at the Clinton
Foundation.
Is there something wrong with
that, David?
DAVID BROOKS: I think minorly.
Apparently, she paid her own
way.
I think minorly.
As I say, the way life works,
not only in
Washington, but in every
business that I have
ever heard of, is that a friend
wants something
and you want them to give money
to a good
cause, and so, you know, people
join boards
of directors to make some
professional connections.
There is no pure line between
those things.
So, would it be better if there
was a pure
line in some ideal world?
Would it be better if the
Clintons didn't
have a predilection for blurring
every line
that they could?
That would be better.
But, again, I think it's the
width, but I
don't think it's -- I can't get
super angry
about it, to be honest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, E.J., you're
saying it's
-- you don't see anything there
that is actionable,
actionable?
E.J.
DIONNE: I don't think we have
seen anything
actionable yet.
What the Clinton people are
saying is, look,
every big foundation of this
sort deals with
aides, or other problems in the
world, always
have interactions with the State
Department.
But, as I say, people are going
to keep asking
these questions as long as the
Clinton Foundation
is around and as long as she is
in public
life.
So, I'm against Trump's wall
with Mexico,
but they need some kind of wall
here to protect
themselves and to kind of push
these stories
away.
DAVID BROOKS: It would be a good
experiment
to know how much money they
would actually
raise as the Truman-Kennedy
foundation.
It might be $1.29 a year, but...
E.J.
DIONNE: Lot of love for both Ike
and JFK.
DAVID BROOKS: Not from foreign
lobbyists.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, meantime,
there are Clinton
e-mails still out there.
And we expect they are going to
be out in
the -- leaked out into the
public arena between
now and the election.
Both Hillary Clinton and Donald
Trump said
something about their economic
plans this
week.
David, do we learn anything from
this?
What's the bright line between
the two of
them?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, there
certainly are bright
lines.
I was depressed by both of them.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: I think the
country, the economy
has some new, genuine
challenges.
We have had incredibly laggard
growth.
Productivity increases have been
meager and
terrible.
Hundreds -- millions of people
have dropped
out of the labor force.
These have all happened this
century.
And to me, what both Clinton and
especially
Trump did was have economic
plans built for
1973, as if we're going to have
labor-rich
manufacturing jobs come back.
Labor-rich manufacturing doesn't
exist anymore.
Manufacturing jobs are
white-collar, Silicon
Valley programmers or
highly-skilled technicians.
They are not going to employ
lots of people.
And so we had two economic plans
that had,
in my view, very limited growth
agendas.
Infrastructure is good, but not
it.
Very limited productivity
agendas, and really
nothing to help people who are
out of the
labor force.
So, they were so unimaginative.
They were sort of grab bags, in
Clinton's
case, of either the normal
policies that Democrats
have been proposing 20 years,
or, in Trump's
case, a mixture of weird things
that are left
over from supply-side and
populism.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did you read
all that?
E.J.
DIONNE: I saw -- I thought there
was more
growth and sort of
forward-looking stuff in
the Clinton plan than David was.
I was particularly struck that
she began her
speech by talking about the
inventiveness
of companies in Michigan and how
they were
taking advantage of change.
And it reflected this issue that
Democrats
have to deal with.
They want to sort of talk about
how things
are a lot better than they were
eight years
ago -- and they really are --
but if they
say that too much, they look out
of touch
with all the people who are
hurting, whereas
Trump, I thought, if you
listened carefully,
he's giving the words to the
workers and money
to the rich.
The tax cuts that he has sort of
make Reagan
look like a -- you know, almost
like a Democrat.
I mean, these are steep tax cuts
for the wealthy,
getting rid of the inheritance
tax, the estate
tax, which would be particularly
good, as
Hillary Clinton loves to point
out...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, he's
trimmed some of
the taxes...
E.J.
DIONNE: I'm sorry?
JUDY WOODRUFF: He's trimmed some
of the tax
changes he's talked about.
E.J.
DIONNE: He trims it, but it's
still a huge
tax cut, with nothing, no talk
of compensation
for the deficit or anything
else.
And Hillary had fun saying that
this is really
good for Trump's family and his
friends, but
it's not clear who it's going to
help.
I don't know what the net of
this exchange
is, but I think you're seeing
is, Clinton
is not going to leave
blue-collar voters to
Trump.
She is fighting for them.
And a lot of what she's done in
the last two
or three weeks has been to try
to shore up
her position in those swing
states with a
lot of blue-collar voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, well,
we do get
a chance to talk about the
economy again.
And we wanted to talk about the
wonderful
American results at the
Olympics, these young
athletes who are performing so
well.
But we're going to save that for
another time.
E.J.
DIONNE: Simone Manuel, Katie
Ledecky, Simone
Biles, they can all run in 2032.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
And that's a great lead, because
we have got
the Olympics coming up.
David Brooks, E.J. Dionne, thank
you very
much.
E.J.
DIONNE: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Speaking of
which, to the big
wins and surprising loss at the
Olympics.
As we near the completion of the
first week
of the Rio games, U.S. Olympians
have often
fulfilled and even exceeded
already sky-high
expectations.
Even so, there was a big upset
today.
Jeffrey Brown kicks off our
coverage tonight.
JEFFREY BROWN: First the bad
news, that upset
by Sweden of the U.S. Women's
Soccer Team
today, eliminating them from
competition.
It's the first time the women's
team failed
to advance to the semifinals in
a major tournament.
But, last night, expectations
were sky-high,
and gymnast Simone Biles met
them, as she
literally soared through the
individual all-around
competition to win her second
gold medal,
confirming her place as the best
gymnast in
the world today.
And best ever Olympian?
Many would put Michael Phelps
high on that
list.
Yesterday, the 31-year-old
swimmer won the
200-meter individual medley for
the fourth
consecutive Olympic Games and
his fourth gold
medal in these Games.
His astounding career tally now
stands at
22 gold medals, 26 Olympic
medals overall.
And there was more history in
the pool.
Simone Manuel tied for fist in
the women's
100-meter freestyle, setting a
new Olympic
record and becoming the first
African-American
woman to win an Olympic gold
medal in swimming.
SIMONE MANUEL, U.S. Olympic Gold
Medalist:
This medal isn't just for me.
It's for a whole bunch of people
who have
came before me and have been an
inspiration
to me, Maritza, Cullen.
And it's for all the people
after me who believe
they can't do it.
And I just want to be an
inspiration to others
that you can do it.
JEFFREY BROWN: And for more on
these big events,
we go to Rio and once again to
Christine Brennan,
sportswriter and columnist
covering the Games
for USA Today.
She's also a contributor for
CNN.
And hello again, Christine.
So let's go in that same order,
if we could.
First, the big loss today in
women's soccer.
What happened and how big a
loss?
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, USA Today:
It's huge, Jeff.
We hear that a lot in the
Olympics, but this
one is a very big deal.
The U.S. women have never lost
at this round
ever in a World Cup or an
Olympics.
So this is a first.
To go out in the quarterfinals
is stunning.
What happened?
They have been having a little
uneven play
throughout the tournament.
Goalkeeper Hope Solo has not
been at her best.
Still, you would think that they
would get
by Sweden.
But, interestingly, the Swedish
coach, Pia
Sundhage, was the U.S. coach for
two Olympic
Games.
There is no one who knows the
Americans better
than Pia Sundhage.
So, was able to coach her
Swedish team, bunch
up the middle, do a lot of
things, because
she knows the U.S. so well.
I think that's number one.
Number two, some classic
misfires, just not
playing well from some of the
top Americans.
Obviously, then, when you get to
penalty kicks,
as this game did, of course,
anything goes
at that point.
And this is the first Olympic
game ever to
be decided by penalty kicks.
And, again, Hope Solo not as
great as she
has been.
And I wonder how much the U.S.
team misses
Abby Wambach, of course, the
great star who
retired after the World Cup last
year.
But think about this, Jeff.
Thirteen months ago, this team
was the toast
of the country, just the
favorite of all sports
people of the year.
And now to lose like this, well,
the only
positive I can come up with is
that it shows
that the world is catching up.
And even the U.S. women, kind of
the Johnny
Appleseeds of the sport, sowing
those around
the world, would say that, when
they lose,
as devastating as that is,
there's also that
plus that around the world
people care more
and more about women's soccer,
thanks in large
part to the U.S. team.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
So, turning to some better news
for the U.S.,
Simone Biles.
When you and I spoke before the
Games started,
we talked about, how could she
live up to
the expectations?
Well, she did.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: She did.
And it's one thing for all of us
to say she's
going to win the Olympic gold
medal in the
women's all-around, which is
kind of like
winning in the Winter Olympics
the women's
figure skating medal.
It's just like your name is
known forever.
You may never have to buy
yourself another
meal.
And you are just one of the
stars of all-stars
of an Olympic Games.
It's one thing to be everyone
saying you can
do it.
It's the other thing to actually
And there were no nerves.
This woman just cut right
through it.
I think she's the greatest
gymnast of all
time, Jeff.
I think she's that good.
She's a combination of Mary Lou
Retton, going
back to Nadia Comaneci, then
Olga Korbut.
I mean, it's almost like she is
standing on
the shoulders of every gymnast
who came before
her.
And she is the culmination of an
entire sport
and the embodiment of an entire
sport.
She's just that good, three-time
world champ,
now not only the U.S. team gold
medal the
other day, but then the
individual all-around.
Simone Biles had the pressure of
the world
on her shoulders, and not only
did she deliver.
She was absolutely at her best
at the most
important moment of her life.
What more could you ask for than
that?
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so
speaking greatest
ever, then there's Michael
Phelps.
Now, beyond greatest swimmer to
discussion
of greatest Olympian ever, and
doing what
he's doing in his fifth
Olympics.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: I know.
He's 31 years old, which I know
to you and
I that doesn't seem that old,
but for swimming
he's going against teenagers
that are early
20-something.
And I must admit, I'm surprised.
I knew he was going to be good,
and I knew
he might win a gold medal or
two.
I think I even said that in our
previous conversation.
But this is four gold medals,
with one more
chance tonight in the 100
butterfly, which
is going to be tough for him.
It's going to be much closer.
But he had a Katie Ledecky lead
in the 200
individual medley last night.
He has won the 200 butterfly.
He has been the rock star of the
U.S. team
in two relays.
And this really solidifies, I
think, over
the course of time, '04, '08,
'12 and '16,
to beat all comers, as a guy
who's 31.
And I will say, maybe the
greatest moment
for me watching him was after
that relay.
In 70 minutes, he won two gold
medals.
But after the relay the other
night, he literally
sat down on the blocks and kind
of slumped
over like an old man, like
coming home from
a day of work, that he was
spent.
He had had it.
He had thrown every ounce of his
energy into
that.
And what an Olympics for a guy.
This is a punctuation point of
all punctuation
points that I didn't even see
coming.
He has been that good.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, and
then finally
another very touching and
historic story in
the pool last night, the victory
by Simone
Manuel, who tied for the gold in
the 100-meter
freestyle.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: You know,
Jeff, this is
so important.
The visual says everything.
I mean, to me, as great as Katie
Ledecky has
been, as great as Michael Phelps
has been,
I don't know if at the end of
the day we don't
come away with Simone Manuel
being that one
image, because in basically a
lily-white sport,
a sport of suburban kids, which
is fine, all
of a sudden, you have an
African-American
woman becoming the first
woman to win an Olympic gold
medal in swimming.
And what that message is, as a
role model,
this is a sport that obviously
-- the skill
of learning to swim that many
swimmers talk
about, they have got to get into
the urban
areas.
You have got to get into the
places where
kids aren't able to go to pools.
Boy, Simone Manuel, this could
be the victory
for the ages in terms of her
ability to speak
to those issues, and for the
sport of swimming
just could be able to branch out
in ways it
hasn't, because, right now, it's
been kind
of contained into one
demographic.
And to see that moment and that
tie with the
Canadian, and the way they
reacted to each
other, to me, that's what the
Olympics is
all about.
JEFFREY BROWN: Christine Brennan
in Rio, thanks
so much.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN: Jeff, thank
you very much.
JEFFREY BROWN: And we turn to
another big
story of these Games, away from
the medal
podiums.
Across the globe today, there
are some 65
million people who've been
forced from their
homes, an unprecedented number.
Ten refugees are now on the
world stage in
Rio.
He didn't win the 100 meter
butterfly yesterday,
not even close, but 25-year-old
Rami Anis,
a Syrian refugee now living in
Belgium, did
get a standing ovation;
18-year-old Yusra
Mardini, also from Syria, won a
preliminary
heat in her race before failing
to advance
further.
Still, by the very special terms
she'd set
for herself, this was a victory.
YUSRA MARDINI, Refugee Olympic
Team: For the
refugees in Brazil, and all the
refugees around
the world, we are going to
represent you guys
in a really good picture.
And I hope you are going to
learn from our
story that you have to move on,
because life
will never stop with your
problems or anything.
And I hope that everyone will
continue to
achieve their dreams.
JEFFREY BROWN: Just last year,
both Yusra
Mardini and Rami Anis made the
dangerous voyage
across the Aegean Sea that's
become a symbol
of an international refugee
crisis.
On Mardini's trip, the motor
failed and she
and her sister, also a swimmer,
were the only
ones strong enough to swim the
crowded boat
to safety.
One week ago, to a resounding
welcome, the
two young Syrians and eight
other athletes
made history as the first ever
Refugee Olympic
Team.
Filippo Grandi, U.N. high
commissioner for
refugees, was there, and spoke
with us yesterday
from his Geneva headquarters.
FILIPPO GRANDI, United Nations
High Commissioner
for Refugees: I was so nervous,
like if I
was going to give an exam, I can
tell you.
And we had to wait for the whole
ceremony,
because they were the last but
one team to
enter before the hosts, Brazil.
And when they entered, the
emotion was unlimited.
JEFFREY BROWN: The UNHCR worked
with the International
Olympic Commission to create the
team, holding
tryouts in refugee camps such as
the huge
Kakuma camp in Kenya.
Those who made the cut got the
help of world-class
coaches to prepare for Rio.
FILIPPO GRANDI: We started
talking about that
project in the midst of the most
negative
global discussion on refugees
and migrants
during the Europe crisis.
So, it was really a reversal of
that approach,
that vision.
It was positive.
It emphasized achievement.
It emphasized contributions by
refugees.
JEFFREY BROWN: Five runners who
fled war in
South Sudan as children made it
to Rio; 21-year-old
Yiech Pur Biel made his Olympics
debut this
afternoon in the 800-meter
competition.
Anjelina Nadai Lohalith will run
on Saturday
in the 1,500 meter race;
28-year-old James
Nyang Chiengjiek will run the
400-meter dash
Saturday well.
Paulo Lokoro, 24 years old, is a
middle-distance
runner who escaped the war in
2006.
He runs next Tuesday.
Rose Nathike Lokonyen made the
team despite
having to run barefoot in
tryouts in the refugee
camp.
ROSE NATHIKE LOKONYEN, Refugee
Olympic Team:
We compete among the refugees.
Then it happened that some of
us, we ran without
shoe.
Like me, I was just running
barefoot.
JEFFREY BROWN: Filippo Grandi
visited the
five as they trained in Kenya,
and it was
there he became convinced this
refugee team
could both compete with
world-class athletes,
and have an impact beyond Rio.
FILIPPO GRANDI: We knew that
these were people
coming from hardship, often
living in difficult
conditions in refugee camps,
having gone through
very difficult situations.
So, for them to step up to those
technical
levels would be difficult.
But we knew that would
compensate by enthusiasm,
by commitment, and by the strong
message that
they would bring to the Olympic
Games.
JEFFREY BROWN: The oldest member
of the refugee
team is 36-year-old marathoner
Yonas Kinde.
He fled Ethiopia in 2013, and
now has asylum
in Luxembourg.
And filling out the group, two
refugees from
the Democratic Republic of
Congo, who competed
in judo earlier this week;
28-year-old Yolande
Mabika lost her parents to war
and first took
up judo in a center for
displaced children
in Kinshasa.
She lost her first-round match
on Wednesday;
24-year-old Popole Misenga won
his first bout
before losing to a world
champion from South
Korea.
Misenga's mother was killed when
he was 9,
and he's not seen his siblings
since.
POPOLE MISENGA, Refugee Olympic
Team (through
translator): I am here, in
Brazil.
I'm participating in the
Olympics, and I thank
God for that.
If my brother can see me on TV,,
to know your
brother is here in Brazil,
striving to maybe
see him, be one day together, I
send him hugs
wherever he is, and I am
thinking of him here
in Brazil.
And I hope to bring all my
family close to
me, to see them.
It's been such a long time.
JEFFREY BROWN: The two judo
competitors have
received asylum in Brazil three
years ago.
The Olympic host nation, a land
of immigrants,
has welcomed many recent
asylum-seekers.
Hanan Dacka, a 12-year-old
Syrian refugee,
was chosen as an Olympic
torchbearer in the
capital city of Brasilia earlier
this year.
It was a symbolic moment greeted
warmly by
onlookers, just as an
international audience
has embraced the refugee
athletes at the Rio
Games.
But will it last?
Filippo Grandi hopes the world
sees beyond
these 10 to the millions of
others.
FILIPPO GRANDI: Refugees are not
just a number,
are not just 60 million people,
all the same.
Refugees, each refugee is an
individual with
a profoundly difficult personal
history.
And I hope that the personal
histories of
these 10 athletes will
illustrate this important
characteristic of refugees that
is too often
forgotten, because too often we
concentrate
on big numbers, on the
consequences of flows
of millions of people and the
impact that
they have.
And we forget that each one of
them is a person
with a history that needs to be
addressed
individually as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: The hope, that
is, is for an
Olympic moment that goes beyond
gold medals.
I'm Jeffrey Brown for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, to
another of our
Brief But Spectacular episodes,
where we ask
interesting people to describe
their passion.
Earlier, we heard what was
driving the recent
chaos witnessed in the Middle
East.
Now we hear a more personal take
from photojournalist
Lynsey Addario, whose work
appears regularly
in The New York Times, "National
Geographic,"
and "TIME" magazine.
Having covered conflict around
the globe,
from the Taliban in Afghanistan
to turmoil
in Libya, where she was
kidnapped in 2011,
she writes her experiences in a
memoir, "It's
What I Do."
LYNSEY ADDARIO,
Author/Photographer, "It's
What I Do": "If your pictures
aren't good
enough, you're not close
enough."
That's a classic Robert Capa
quote.
He was a very famous war
photographer.
And it's the truth.
We cannot do our jobs from
further back.
And I have to care.
I have to bring myself
emotionally closer
to the subject.
I believe in these stories.
I believe they have to be told.
And so I force myself to go to
these places.
It's not an adrenaline rush and
it's not an
addiction.
I have been kidnapped twice,
once in Garma,
which is a village outside
Fallujah, by Sunni
insurgents, and once in Libya.
I was sure we were about to die.
And all I can think about is
really?
Is this where I'm going to see
the end of
my life?
What am I doing here?
Why is it so important for me to
be here?
And I have to ask myself those
questions,
because a big part of this job
is knowing
that we might die at any given
time.
People always ask, like, are you
stoic when
you're shooting?
And I am anything but stoic.
When I'm watching someone die, I
become very
overwhelmed with emotion, and
I'm crying as
I'm shooting.
I think it would be really
strange if I didn't
cry when I saw the things I see,
because I
see some of the most horrific
things and some
of the most beautiful things.
Being a war photographer comes
with great
sacrifice.
It's almost impossible to have a
personal
life.
The amount of psychological and
physical trauma
that each one of us carries with
us from covering
war over many, many years is
extraordinary.
When I first started doing this
job, I had
a really hard time reconciling
the fact that
life went on outside of these
war zones, and
I would come back to New York,
and everyone
was at a bar getting drunk and
having fun.
And I was so confused.
I don't understand why no one
cares, and people
aren't out on the street
protesting.
I had to make a decision at some
point that
if I was going to lead this
life, I had to
not leave behind the things I
have seen, but
be present when I go home to be
with my family
and my husband and my son.
I have to be there for them.
I was so frustrated by people
being so dismissive
of the deeper reasons why anyone
would cover
war.
It's about educating people,
policy-makers,
talking about human rights
abuses.
Once a photographer starts
seeing the impact
of his or her work, it's
impossible to turn
away.
I mean, it's impossible to stop
doing it.
My name is Lynsey Addario, and
this is my
Brief But Spectacular take on
life as a photojournalist.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Such amazing
photographs.
And you can watch more episodes
of our Brief
But Spectacular series on our
Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
Also online: What gives dogs
their super sniffing
skills?
Meet Zinca, the rescue dog, and
learn how
researchers are decoding the
secrets of smell.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs
from our PBS colleagues.
Gwen Ifill is preparing for
"Washington Week,"
which airs later tonight.
Here's a preview:
GWEN IFILL: Hi, Judy.
Well, another week, another set
of signs that
this election is nothing if not
unconventional.
From tax rates to tax returns,
from the Second
Amendment to ISIS, as more
Republicans appear
to flee for cover, at week's
end, what does
it all mean?
We will try to put it in context
later tonight
on "Washington Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
watching.
Tomorrow on the "PBS NewsHour
Weekend": the
downside to Silicon Valley's
success, skyrocketing
housing costs.
And we will be back right here
on Monday.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.